---
layout: post
title: "Book Review Ready Player 1"
date: 2011-12-28 15:37:51
categories: Blog
tags: Book Review
author: Zack Glick
summary: Book Review of Earnest Clines Ready Player One 
slug: blog/ready-player-one
image: Ready-Player-One.jpg
---

<p>I finished listening to <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Ready-Player-One-ebook/dp/B004J4WKUQ/ref=kinw_dp_ke?ie=UTF8&amp;m=AG56TWVU5XWC2">Ready Player One</a> by Ernest Cline this afternoon and enjoyed the book a great deal.   Rather than rehash a number of great reviews out there <a href="http://boingboing.net/2011/08/15/ready-player-one-the-best-science-fiction-book-ive-read-in-a-decade.html">exampled</a> I will simply paste in one Amazon review which hooked me</p>
<p>"Ready Player One takes place in the not-so-distant future--the world has turned into a very bleak place, but luckily there is OASIS, a virtual reality world that is a vast online utopia. People can plug into OASIS to play, go to school, earn money, and even meet other people (or at least they can meet their avatars), and for protagonist Wade Watts it certainly beats passing the time in his grim, poverty-stricken real life. Along with millions of other world-wide citizens, Wade dreams of finding three keys left behind by James Halliday, the now-deceased creator of OASIS and the richest man to have ever lived. The keys are rumored to be hidden inside OASIS, and whoever finds them will inherit Halliday’s fortune. But Halliday has not made it easy. And there are real dangers in this virtual world. Stuffed to the gills with action, puzzles, nerdy romance, and 80s nostalgia, this high energy cyber-quest will make geeks everywhere feel like they were separated at birth from author Ernest Cline" <a href="http://www.amazon.com/Ready-Player-One-ebook/dp/B004J4WKUQ/ref=kinw_dp_ke?ie=UTF8&amp;m=AG56TWVU5XWC2">--Chris Schluep</a></p>
<p>I came to Ready Player One after completing Alisar Reynold's The Prefect which is also a great book but as a 24+ hour audio book of hard sci fi it was nice to take a break with this light hearted romp through pop culture nostalgia.  When you are listening to a book at the gym the pace of the action is what keeps you coming back for another workout session.  Ready Player One hits its stride early and treats you to a steady diet of giant robot rumbles, 80's cartoon callbacks, and video game memories.  The heart beat of the story is consistent and keeps moving at a good pace.</p>
<p>The primary reason I enjoyed Cline's story was his ability to create a virtual world which was fairly internally consistent.  We don't lack for stories which (or try to) attach physical dangers and constraints to a virtual world but being able to execute this is what can take a story and make it great.  Before you can step into the OAISIS Cline has described a world in where the energy crisis has limited physical travel almost completely.  Within the OAISIS travel from sector to sector and planet to planet takes real time and resources.  By placing limitations on travel, items and an avatar's mortality Cline creates real drama in a virtual space. </p>
<p>Not to say the book is without flaws, there are some moments of heavy foreshadowing and plot drops throughout the book and some character construction is a little shallow.  These minor flaws do not take away from the plot and the world which are this books two main assets.</p>
<p>Since I listened to this book as an audio download from <a href="http://www.audible.com/pd?asin=B005FRGT44">Audible</a> I would be remiss if I did not commend <a href="http://twitter.com/#!/wilw">Wil Wheaton</a> on his excellent performance.  I had not previously listened to a book he has narrated but his consistent character voices and excellent pace make him a narrator I will have to listen to again.</p>
<p>At the end of it all I would give this book a 4 of 5 and would recommend it to anyone who can be nostalgic for Han shooting first, or an 8 bit soundtrack.</p>
