---
layout: post
title: Book Review Amped 
date: 2012-06-27 15:00:00
categories: Blog
tags: Book Review
author: Zack Glick
aummary:  Amped by Daniel H. Wilson was an ok book but like the authors other book Robopocalypse, did not deliver on the awesome premise and world which the author created. Without revealing the spoilers below the break, I can say this was an enjoyable book with awesome cover art to read on the porch during the summer it was enjoyable, though the story is a little telegraphed.
slug: blog/amped
image: Amped.jpg
---
[Amped](http://www.amazon.com/Amped-Novel-Daniel-H-Wilson/dp/0385535155) by Daniel H. Wilson was an ok book but like the author's other book [Robopoclaypse](www.amazon.com/Robopocalypse-A-Novel-Vintage-Contemporaries/dp/0307740803/ref=la_B001JP1TYG_1_2?ie=UTF8&qid=1340803367&sr=1-2it), did not deliver on the awesome premise and world which the author created.  Without revealing the spoilers below the break, I can say this was an enjoyable book with awesome cover art to read on the porch during the summer it was enjoyable, though the story is a little telegraphed. 

I read the Kindle version and encountered no formatting issues. 

##Spoilers Ahead

Amped as a story attempts to take two themes of US History, minority oppression & fear of science, and blends them together into an interesting story trying to explore the ideas of how the United States might react to the next shift in the human species.  America's history of oppression towards minority groups, from African Americans, Native Americans, Japanese Americans, Americans with Disabilities, various immigrant groups throughout history to only name a few, are known to even a casual student of US history.  Dan Wilson takes this history and applies to his invented category of humans the "Amps", aka Amplified Human Beings.  These are people who have either through medical necessity or attempting to get a let up on their fellow men have enhanced their senses, cognition and perception of the world through the use of implanted technology.  A questions which emerges and sets up the main story arc is, are these persons with enhanced mental capacities still human?

The story opens up with this fictional Supreme Court ruling that these individuals are not a protected class and that contracts made with individuals with these implanted systems are null and void.  With this ruling in place and the anti-technology fervor sired up by the Bible Thumping Pure Human League things begin to take a turn against Amps.  Modern society is one built on contracts, for employment, housing, credit cards, utilities, corporations, ect and without the ability to secure their property rights Amps begin to face immediate issues.  At this point early on in the book things begin to get out of control and our main character is forced to flee to an Amp reservation in Oklahoma.  

This point was where I began to get worried.  From this point forward in the story we only get to experience the feelings of the country in aggregate through media accounts at the beginning of each chapter.  This first person narrative makes for an interesting action thrill ride of amp vs redneck confrontations, love connections and cyborg on cyborg combat we learn almost nothing about what is going on in the world until the main villain gives his soliloquy to explain the whole plan.  For a story which attempts to explain how a society will cope with change we are only experiencing the story through the technologically enhanced vision of one person.  

I can understand why the author made this decision after <a href="www.imdb.com/title/tt1541155/" target="_blank">what happened after his last book</a> it doesn't explain what is going on with a society as a whole.  Though it is an older book Max Brook's <a href="http://www.amazon.com/World-War-Oral-History-Zombie/dp/0307346617">World War Z</a> does a much better job of showing how a society deals with a crisis.  Brook's use of multiple stories told through different narrators shows us how different facets of the world are coping.  I think that this ability to share different view points is one of the advantages which a novel has over a movie.  Like Robopocalypse World War Z was also greenlit for a <a href="http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0816711/">movie adaptation</a> but the process is <a href="http://io9.com/5918390/zombie-movie-world-war-z-is-an-undead-disaster">not going so well</a> a world spanning tale is much more difficult to tell in a 2 hour movie than one person's experience with prejudice, combat and love.  

## Wrap Up
Where Amped suffered was that it never truly explores the great world that Daniel Wilson created.  I got hooked on this book when I read the [thre sample chapters published on io9](http://io9.com/5914746/the-first-3-chapters-from-daniel-h-wilsons-thrilling-new-novel-amped) but it never got off the ground.  This book is a very interesting one which made for a very pleasurable read on the porch during the summer but I wish that we could have had the camera pulled back a little bit further and really get to experience this world.  
